Add finance team handbook docs (#1805)
sourcegraph/about: handbook/ops/finance/arr.md

# ARR

## Definitions

See [definitions of ARR, IARR, new IARR, expansion IARR, and bookings](../../sales/index.md#definitions) in the sales handbook.

## Monthly closing process

Every month the finance team closes the books and reports the latest ARR to the team based on calculations in the ARR source of truth, the [ARR tracker spreadsheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1Ao3Nqw6gH3yAuZtICV3xo35kKKnI9oKXnvPuTQ0Fh9c/edit). This process will be completed within 5 business days of the end of the month.

### New IARR

> 1. Throughout the month, finance will take any announced sales and add them to the ARR tracker spreadsheet on the Deals tab. Whenever a sale is announced in the #sales Slack channel, before adding it to the ARR tracker spreadsheet, finance will respond to the AE with their assumptions for the following values, and sales must confirm in writing that each of these is correct:

Reviewer: We should drive towards using Salesforce as the source of truth for the name, IARR and contract dates (instead of Slack, which isn't considered a source of truth for us)

Author: ```suggestion
1. Throughout the month, finance will take any announced sales and add them to the ARR tracker spreadsheet on the Deals tab. Whenever an opportunity is marked as "Won" in Salesforce (or when a sale is announced in the #sales Slack channel), before adding it to the ARR tracker spreadsheet, finance will respond to or message the AE with the following values pulled in Salesforce, and sales must confirm in writing that each of these is correct:
```

Author: Thoughts? Is my SFDC terminology ("Opportunity", "won") correct?

Reviewer: Yeah looks good!

  - Customer name

>   - Close date

Author: ```suggestion
  - Start of contract date
```

  - IARR amount

### Expansion IARR

> 1. At the end of the month, finance will calculate [expansion IARR and MAU bookings](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1tRcz3bNOho1TyWvrYSv37RIYcQs7I0i05-5eKwLq8TI/edit#gid=0). Finance will post a message in the #sales channel listing each individual booking, with the AE who owns the account tagged on each line. Each AE with a booking must confirm in writing that the expansion is correct.

Reviewer: I love this, would make me feel better about the expansion process 😄. For now I agree this should be in Slack but should migrate over to Salesforce if/when we do expansion tracking there.

> 1. At the end of the month, finance will calculate [expansion IARR and MAU bookings](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1tRcz3bNOho1TyWvrYSv37RIYcQs7I0i05-5eKwLq8TI/edit#gid=0). Finance will post a message in the #sales channel listing each individual booking, with the AE who owns the account tagged on each line. Each AE with a booking must confirm in writing that the expansion is correct.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. At the end of the month, finance will calculate [expansion IARR and MAU bookings](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1tRcz3bNOho1TyWvrYSv37RIYcQs7I0i05-5eKwLq8TI/edit#gid=0). Finance will post a message in the #sales channel listing each individual booking, with the AE who owns the account tagged on each line. Each AE with a booking must confirm in writing that the expansion is correct. Should someone recognize an account has triggered an expansion within the month, finance should communicate and recognize the IARR within a few business days. 
```

Author: I'd actually prefer NOT to do this... Only if specifically requested for some mid-month report will we add these in. Having this option creates a burden on the finance team to cross-check all new additions at the end of the month, to make sure they haven't already been added. What do you think?

Reviewer: I agree with the notion we shouldn't do it unless specifically requested; it's created mix-ups in the past so I'd always prefer to wait until the end of month. Just based on past actions we've added them whenever they've been realized.

> 1. These expansion and MAU bookings are added to the ARR tracker spreadsheet and should be dated as of the beginning of the month being closed (e.g., when closing September 2020, the booking will be dated 9/1/2020, the beginning of the month being closed).

Author: ```suggestion
1. These expansion and MAU bookings are added to the ARR tracker spreadsheet and should be dated as of the beginning of the month being closed (e.g., when closing September 2020, the booking will be dated 9/1/2020, the beginning of the month being closed).
1. All final expansion and MAU bookings should be copy-pasted out of the ARR tracker spreadsheet and sent to the [Sales Ops](../sales-ops/index.md) team so they can be added to Salesforce.
```

### Final internal reports

1. When the finance team member who is updating the tracker feels confident in the results, they should ask @dan and @gregg to review each change, as well as the aggregate metrics in a draft of the public message below, and provide a final approval.

> 1. The finance team member who completed the process should post an update to the #finance channel containing the following. If the month being closed is a quarter-end, they should also cross-post this to the #general channel.

Reviewer: Why not make this a monthly cross-post?

```suggestion
1. The finance team member who completed the process should post an update to the #finance channel containing the following, as well as cross-post this to the #general channel.
```
